This code forecasts expected numbers of deaths due to COVID-19 in the future,
based on historical numbers of deaths, for a given population (typically a
country or state).  Parameters mentioned below are based on numbers from the
literature; see https://github.com/ketch/covid-blog-posts/wiki/Literature.

# Methodology

1. Based on recorded numbers of deaths for the specified region, infer
   the number of newly infected individuals for each day in the past,
   up to about two weeks ago.  This requires an assumed distribution
   of the time from infection to death, as well as an assumed infection
   fatality ratio (IFR).  Unfortunately, the distribution of times to death
   for deaths on a given day is not the same as the given distribution
   over a whole population, due to varying rates of new infections.
   Instead, formally the rate of infection is related to the rate of death
   by a deconvolution.  This deconvolution is ill-posed and typical
   regularizations give unrealistic predictions, so the model attempts
   to determine just a mean time to death (MTTD) for recent deaths in the
   region and then assumes that each death corresponds to 1/IFR new
   infections that occurred MTTD days earlier.  For each country, an
   average IFR is calculated based on UN data for the age structure
   combined with estimated IFRs from Verity et. al.
   The assumed MTTD for a uniform distribution of deaths is 17 days.


2. The inferred number of infections goes only up to a day MTTD days in the
   past.  Starting from that day, we simulate forward to the present day using
   the SIR model.  It is necessary to incorporate in this model the effect
   of non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs).  Rather than trying to guess
   or estimate the effects of announced measures, since these are likely to
   vary strongly between different regions even for the same measure, the
   model fits the intervention effect to give death counts close to those
   over the corresponding time period.  The intervention is modeled as a
   proportional reduction in the rate of contact between infectious and
   susceptible individuals.  Two fits are done; the first assumes
   a constant level of intervention, while the second fits an intervention
   effect that varies linearly in time.  Because the magnitude of the slope
   is penalized in the fit, these two are fairly close unless there has been
   a recent drastic change in the trend of deaths per day.

3. Using the output of the above model at the present day, and the estimated
   intervention parameter q, the SIR model is again solved forward in time
   to predict all of the quantities listed below.
   
 Outputs are generated daily as a single JSON file and are found in the `output` folder.

# Primary model outputs:

 - **Non-susceptibles**: This is the number of individuals that are no longer susceptible to
   new infection, because they have already recovered or they are currently infected.  The model
   assumes that recovered individuals are immune (which is very likely to be true
   at least in the short term, and currently unclear in the longer term).
 - **estimated immunity**: This is just the number of non-susceptibles divided by the total population of the region.
   We expect the epidemic to begin to die out, with no further intervention needed, when this fraction
   reaches about 75% (herd immunity, based on current estimates of the basic reproduction number).
   Intervention may at least temporarily slow or halt the epidemic before herd immunity is reached.
 - **new infections**, **past new infections**: The number of people that become newly infected each day.  
   For past dates this is inferred from death rates.  For future dates this is modelled.
 - **intervention effectiveness**: The model's empirical assessment of how effectively intervention has
   reduced the spread of the virus during the past two weeks.  A value of 1 means 100% reduction (no spread)
   while a value of 0 means the virus is spreading freely (no intervention).  This is *not* based on
   official policies but on fitting a model to the recent data.
- **deaths**: The number of deaths each day (not cumulative), predicted by the model.  This prediction is
   based on not only the characteristics of the disease, but also on the current **intervention effectiveness**.
   It assumes that the same level of intervention will be maintained indefinitely.
   If intervention policy has changed recently (or will change in the near future), this prediction will be
   inaccurate.
 - **deaths_high** and **deaths_low**: Predictions of the number of deaths based on assuming a level
   of intervention effectiveness that is 20% lower or 20% higher than the current intervention effectiveness.
 - **no-intervention deaths** and **no-intervention new infections**: Similar to the predictions of deaths
   and new infections above, but based on an assumption of no intervention.  This is generated by a model
   that starts on the date when 20 cumulative deaths had occurred in the region, with an intervention
   effectiveness of 0.


# Data sources

## Numbers of deaths due to COVID-19

- For countries: https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19/blob/master/csse_covid_19_data/csse_covid_19_time_series/time_series_covid19_deaths_global.csv
- For US states: https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data/blob/master/us-states.csv

## Population and age data

- For countres: https://population.un.org/wpp/Download/Standard/Population/
